# Reflection "AlphaGo"
## The moment that impacted me the most
That press conference that Lee Sedol gave after winning Game Four. Lee described how the people were rejoicing because they could feel relieved that humans "could still hold our own" after AlphaGo lost. Lee who normally only experiences happiness from his personal victories, admitted that this one felt as if everyone won. This puts the entire film into another light as a simple board game turned out to be symbolic representation of much larger questions about our place along side with increasingly powerful machines.

## How AlphaGo's decision-making differed from its human opponents
In my opinion, AlphaGo made decisions in an indifferent and calculative way. According to Thore, it calculated the probability of winning and maximized that without taking into account the margins, hence the weird "slack moves" that people found lazy. Humans play for the higher scores as a form of comfort zone while AlphaGo decided to win by a margin of only one point. Its opponents were playing emotionally, intuitively and psychologically under pressure of doubt and fear. As Fan Hui correctly noted, there is no way that you will feel anything against AlphaGo, thus your doubts become focused on yourself.
## What surprised me about how AlphaGo learned or played
I was surprised that AlphaGo learned by itself rather than followed set of instructions laid down by experts unlike IBM machine that played chess with Kasparov. AlphaGo learned how to play from studying games of humans and then developed itself through millions of plays against itself and even invented new strategy that developers did not know. Another thing that surprised me was that it was far from being infallible. As Lee described, AlphaGo had certain "delusional" weakness that he used to win in Game Four.
## Whether AlphaGo demonstrated creativity
In my opinion, yes, it did in some way. For example, in Game Two AlphaGo came up with a move number 37 which it calculated only one person out of ten thousands would make it but this particular move tied all pieces of the game together. It was called by Lee to be very creative and beautiful. Creativity means the ability to produce novel and useful product and it fits this description. Still AlphaGo lacked the element of intention and aesthetic judgment, hence its creativity is limited compared to humans'. In my opinion the difference in important but does not invalidate the result. Measured by its outcome, that is, the surprising and valuable originality of move 37, AlphaGo was creative, even if the process behind it looked nothing like human imagination.
